3579 feedback page self hostedlatestupgradesminor upgrade (#3630)
timescale/docs: self-hosted/upgrades/upgrade-pg.md

---
title: Upgrade PostgreSQL
excerpt: Upgrade PostgreSQL to a new version
products: [self_hosted]
keywords: [upgrades, PostgreSQL, versions, compatibility]
---

import PlanUpgrade from "versionContent/_partials/_plan_upgrade.mdx";
import ConsiderCloud from "versionContent/_partials/_consider-cloud.mdx";
import PlanMigrationPath from "versionContent/_partials/_migrate_self_postgres_plan_migration_path.mdx";

# Upgrade PostgreSQL

> TimescaleDB is a PostgreSQL extension. When you upgrade, ensure that you are installing to compatible versions of 

Reviewer: the compatible versions?

Author: Updated.

TimescaleDB and PostgreSQL. 

<ConsiderCloud />

## Prerequisites

<PlanUpgrade />

## Plan your upgrade path

<PlanMigrationPath />

## Upgrade your PostgreSQL instance

You use [`pg_upgrade`][pg_upgrade] to upgrade PostgreSQL in-place. `pg_upgrade` allows you to retain
the data files of your current PostgreSQL installation while binding the new PostgreSQL binary runtime 
to them. 

<Procedure>

1. **Find the location of the PostgreSQL binary**

   Set the `OLD_BIN_DIR` environment variable to the folder holding the `postgres` binary. 
   For example, `which postgres` returns something like `/usr/lib/postgresql/16/bin/postgres`.
   ```bash
   export OLD_BIN_DIR=/usr/lib/postgresql/16/bin
   ``` 

1. **Set your connection string**

>    This variables hold the connection information for the database to upgrade:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This variable holds the connection information for the database to upgrade:
```

---
title: Upgrade PostgreSQL
excerpt: Upgrade PostgreSQL to a new version
products: [self_hosted]
keywords: [upgrades, PostgreSQL, versions, compatibility]
---

import PlanUpgrade from "versionContent/_partials/_plan_upgrade.mdx";
import ConsiderCloud from "versionContent/_partials/_consider-cloud.mdx";
import PlanMigrationPath from "versionContent/_partials/_migrate_self_postgres_plan_migration_path.mdx";

# Upgrade PostgreSQL

TimescaleDB is a PostgreSQL extension. When you upgrade, ensure that you are installing to compatible versions of 
TimescaleDB and PostgreSQL. 

<ConsiderCloud />

## Prerequisites

- Install the PostgreSQL client tools on your migration machine. This includes `psql`, and `pg_dump`.
- Read [the release notes][pg-relnotes] for the version of PostgreSQL that you are upgrading to.
- Backup your database. Although TimescaleDB and PostgreSQL upgrades are performed in-place, upgrading is an

>   intrusive operation. In case of disaster, [create a database backup][backup], and ensure that the backup

Reviewer 2: (same)

Author: Fixed.
